Title: Nikko snow shoe walk

----

Status: Completed

----

Place: Okunikko senjogahara

----

Location: 

----

Prefecture: Tochigi

----

Tags: 

----

Date: 2017-02-11

----

Enddate: 2017-02-11

----

Days: 1

----

Organiser: kotaro

----

Coorganiser: 

----

Difficulty: 3

----

Description: 

One-day snowshoe hike in Senjogahara (戦場ヶ原) hike on 11th Saturday February.

This hike aims to provide a beginner- and kids-friendly snowshoe experience in the flat course (therefore may be not enough for serous climber who want to climb a lot).
Of course, rental snowshoe is available and 
Senjogahara is a wetland located in Nikko area and the course is flat yet surrounded by nice mountains.
The expected course time is 4~5 hours.
The difficulty level is 2 of 5.
Meeting time and place : 6:30 a.m. at Tsukbua station parking lot.

*What to bring:
Hiking shoes (must be waterproof)
Warm clothes
Rain gear
Lunch and snacks
Drinks
Onsen staff
Backpack
 
*Expected Cost:
Car and highway transportation : 3140 yen highway toll per car with ETC and gas for 300km
Rental snowshoe and trekking poles : 1000 yen
Onsen : 1000 yen?
Club fee : 300 yen
Insurance

Other rental items are available. Please let me know beforehand if you want.  
  
*Please send an email with your information no later than 6th (Monday) if you want to join us.
1) Your name.
2) Can you bring your car with snow tires?
3) Your phone number.
4) Do you need rental snowshoe?

Since we will go there by cars, number of participants will be restricted by the number of cars
Please feel free to ask me if you have questions or request.

*I recommend you to buy insurance before hiking.
Mont-bell provides short-term insurance. (see, https://hoken.montbell.jp/aboutdomestic/activity.php )
It costs only 250 yen for one day hike!
Unfortunately, English site is not available but I can help you if you need.

----

Report: 

On Saturday 11th February, we (5 members) leave from Tsukuba center parking lot at 6:30.
We arrived in Senjogahar (戦場ヶ原), Nikko (Nikko) area before 9:30. We visited Sanbonmatsu chaya (三本松茶屋) and hired snowshoes + poles (1000 yen), gaiters (300 yen), and shoes (500 yen).
Online reservation is available.
http://sanbonmatsu.moon.bindcloud.jp/

We walked to Akanuma gate and started snowshoe hiking. 
First, we went to the Ryuzu water fall (竜頭ノ滝) along a river to see frozen water fall.
The route was quiet and easy.

After that, we went back the same route until the fork, and two of us walk back to the chaya to take a rest.
Others walked the main route "Shizen kenkyuro (自然研究路)" which is the highlight of this event.
We could enjoy beautiful view of mountains including Nikko-nantaisan(日光男体山) and Nikko-Shirane (日光白根山) from there.
Then we walked to Kotoku (光徳) and went back to the chaya along a road.
We arrived at the chaya at 15:00 and finish hiking.

After hike, we moved to Nikko-Yumoto (日光湯元) onsen area and take onsen (600 yen).