Title: Kirigamine Snow Hike

----

Status: Completed

----

Place: Kirigamine

----

Location: 36.1,138.16666669999995

----

Prefecture: Nagano

----

Tags: nagano,kirigamine

----

Date: 2014-02-08

----

Enddate: 2014-02-10

----

Days: 3

----

Organiser: toshi

----

Coorganiser: 

----

Difficulty: 4

----

Description: 

To enthusiastic winter walkers

This is the first announcement for a snow shoe trip at Kirigamine, Nagano-ken on February 8-10th. The area is currently filled with plenty of snow which enables us to walk comfortably on open hill of Kirigamine with your snows shoe. I organized the same snowshoe trip 2 years ago and it is an ideal place for those who are any level of snowshoe walkers to enjoy snow with easy course.

This snow shoe hike is outlined to enjoy relatively flat and open hill in area of Kirigamine Hiland. Kirigamine-Hiland (around 1500m high from sea level) is located near Shirakaba-lake and 5km north-west of Tateshina-yama which is a northern part of Yatugadake. In winter this area is an ideal space for cross-country ski and snow shoe walk.

First day(8th) :

After getting hut in Kirigamine, we walk directly from hut to open hill of Kirigamine. The destination is Kuruma-yama which is the highest peak in this area. Probably, it takes less than 2 hours to get the summit. We could have a marvellous view from the top over Yatsugatake to Mt Fuji if the weather is our side.

Second day(9th):

We will walk to Yashima-marshland where is completely covered with snow in middle of winter. And we are heading to the east side of Kirigamine nearby Kurumayama ski area. I suppose we spend 4~5 hours with the kind of circle walk around Kirigamine area including lunch time.

Third day(10th):

It will depend on which transportation the Tsukuba group is choosing to come to Kirigamine. If we can move all participants using cars, we will drive to the car park of Yashigamine nearby ski lift. We ascend the snow path along ski lift toward the ridge stretching to Yashigamine(1833m). It takes 1.5h to get the submit and descend the same route to the car park. We could have a 360 degree open view from the submit if the weather is fine. From there, we are going back to JR station (either Kamisuwa or Chino; I will figure out...) Regarding rental snowshoe, I will give them back later to the hut.

If we have no car transportation apart from my car, I will arrange the taxi to get the location. I will consider the alternative route to make participants feel easier to move around including going back to JR station in case the transportation is not straightforward.

 

What you need for this walk:

You need to bring these items as below;

- Well insulated, warm clothing, including good socks and gloves. (As this area is open space, it would be very cold if it is windy….)

- Fully-water-proof outer layer. This means everything except for your hat. You must have water proof gloves and water proof boots. Sneakers and hiking shoes are not acceptable, you need high-ankled, water proof, well-insulated winter hiking boots. You must have gaiters. It is also recommended that your jacket must be wind proof.

- Sun glasses or ski goggles (It is essential on snow….).

- Suncream (up to your skin condition…..).

- A water proof hiking pack. Ideally, it will have a rain cover.

- Lunch. Tea, coffee and miso soup in your thermos would help you to keep yourself warm from inside…

You *do not* need to bring your own snow shoes or poles for this hike, unless you already have one. We will hire snow shoes for those who don't have their own.

 

Accommodation: Kirigamine-hutte (tel: 0266-57-0333)

http://www7.ocn.ne.jp/~hutte-k/index.html

Cost (yen): Hut ~\8400(2meals) x 2 night + rental snowshoe(3days)\2000 + transportation (train+taxi)~\12000 + lunch, snack and drink…\2000? = around 32000~34000(at most). This is my rough estimation. I will let you know more accurate figure later...

Unfortunately, although I am an organiser of this trip, I cannot accompany you all from Tsukuba to Nagano Because I am currently working and living here at Matsumono, Nagano. Therefore, I need sub-organiser to be able to assist group of people in traveling from Tsukuba to Kirigamine.

There are two options to come to Kirigamine as below.

1). Use car transportation:

The route is straightforward from Tsukuba to Kirigamine using car. One essential condition at this season is to use snow tire in order to drive around Kirigamine. You drive along Joban line heading to Suwa exit along Cyuo line driving through Tokyo. From Suwa exit it takes approximately 30 min to get hut where you are staying. The other way is to drive north from Tsukuba to join Kita-Kanto line to get Nagano line heading to Saku exit. From there it takes one hour to get Kirigamine driving beside Shirakaga lake.

Probably the party from Tsukuba needs 2 cars with snow tire to transport participants for this trip.

If we are unable to set up the car transport from Tsukuba due to lack of cars, I lead to the second option as below.

2) Use train and taxi transportation:

This is an actual case at the last tour 2 years ago.

What you do is to take train from Tsukuba to Tokyo, Shinjuku using TX and JR. You are getting JR express train, Azusa from Shinjuku to Kamisuwa JR station. From there, you can share seat with my car and taxi to get Kirigamine ( around 30 min).

 

I hope an eager and mid-experienced participant could help this task…..

On the day of February 8, I am directly driving to Kamisuwa JR station to accompany with your taxi as before.

Finally, please send me your email with your information as below if you wish to enjoy dry snow on the open space at Kirigamine. As I need the arrangement of both booking rooms and rental snowshoe ASAP, your swift response is highly appreciated in this respect.

Currently, I have done the temporary room reservation for 6 people. I will ask the hut to reserve an extra room in case participants are more than 6 people.

I really hope honestly there will be some participants who can bring cars with snow-tire for this trip from Tsukuba.  

Finally, I appreciate very much if you could send me your information as below if you wish to join this snowshoe walk at Kirigmaine area, Nagano.

Your name:

Could you bring your car with snow tire?? Yes or No :
 
Need of rental snowshoe or Not:

Need of snow pole or Not (Ideally you are recommended to have your own walking pole on snow) :

----

Report: 

Initially I was afraid if people from Tsukuba could come to Kirigamine because the heavy snow caused the paralysis of motorway as well as JR transportation. However, fortunately they all could get together at Hutte Kirigamine with only a few hours delay on the first day (February 8th).  We could enjoy the virgin snow for snowwalk and also some could enjoy “snow hole” on the trails without any trace of foot prints during this hike.

Again, thank all participants to have been able to share your precious time with me at this snowshoe hike.  I am again organising another snowshoe hike at Togakushi (Nagano) on March 8-9. My first announcement for this coming hike would be uploaded soon and I look forward again to meet up enthusiastic snowwalkers next hike!!