Title: Nyoho-san & Nantai-san

----

Status: Completed

----

Place: Nyoho-san & Nantai-san

----

Location: 

----

Prefecture: 

----

Tags: 

----

Date: 2004-06-05

----

Enddate: 2004-06-06

----

Days: 2

----

Organiser: Sveta & Nicolas

----

Coorganiser: 

----

Difficulty: 

----

Description: 


Report by Sveta and Nicolas: 
We had announced that the Nyoho-san 
	hike would be challenging and it was but everybody came back happy and safe!

 
We left Tsukuba on Saturday 
	morning around 7:10 (7:40 at KEK) than met one of us at a station near Nikko 
	around 10:00.

After a (small) car problem we 
	finally reached Nikko around 11:30 and started hiking around 12:00 (after 
	visiting the shrine dedicated to 

the famous Sake waterfall near 
	the start of our hike). We paid a visit to the shrine dedicated to the 
	travellers at the foot of 

Nyoho-san and then we 
	(Alexander, Daniel, Sveta and Nicolas) started climbing.
 
The first day was fine and we 
	started with a relatively good pace, faster than the map time, but after a 
	few hours we became slower... 
 
After a day during which we had 
	almost meet nobody we could have expected to be alone at the emergency hut, 
	but in fact it was already packed and we

hardly found 4 spots to sleep... 
	We considered camping around the hut but we found no suitable place (the 
	area of the hut is very rocky).
 
The water point that was 
	supposed to be near the hut was in fact 10 minutes away, down a steep path! 
	One of us went to get water before the 

dinner and two of us had to go 
	in the dark after dinner! We went to bed around 20:30 tired by the 1700 
	meter that we had climb during that first day.
 
Some of us had a very nice sleep 
	during the night while some other spent the night listening the concerto of 
	the many snorer that were in the hut...
 
The next morning we woke up at 
	3:30 (yes, 3:30 on a Sunday morning!!!) very surprised to see that none of 
	the Japaneses who were in the hut had 

already rushed to the summit to 
	enjoy the sunrise.
 
The last 100m (vertical ascent) 
	that separated us from the summit of Nyoho-san were not so easy and it took 
	us one hour to reach the summit

(instead of 40 minutes map 
	time). Even if we arrived too late for the sunrise, we enjoyed very fine 
	views from the summit of Nyoho-san (243m).
 
After a cup of tea and a few 
	biscuits for breakfast, we walked down to the famous "Fuji-view pass". On 
	the way Alexander found a (small) patch of

snow to refresh his feet. The 
	pass itself was rather disappointing as it is a saddle surrounded by trees 
	(and thus there is no view on mount Fuji

or even on Nyoho-san and Nantai-san!).
 
There we decided to split the 
	group into two parts: Daniel and Nicolas decided to climb Komanago-san 
	(2323) and Omanago-san (2375) while 

Alexander and Sveta took a 
	bypass to go directly to the foot of Nantai-san.
 
The ascent of Komanago-san is 
	very steep and rocky while to climb Omanago-san one follows a path accross 
	the forest. The trail going down 

from Omanago-san to Nantai-san 
	has some passes with chains and ladders (but nothing terrible).
 
On the bypass Alexander and 
	Sveta walked about 10 minutes and then saw 2 roads splitting. There they met 
	a Japanese person, who was also wondering

which way to take. He checked 
	his GPS and suggested a way. They decided to follow him even if after 
	checking the map they were not sure that was a 

good way. It was a way of a 
	river with dams and many big and small stones, hard to walk but interesting. 
	Once they even had to use a rope to go dawn. 

It took them 2 hours and then we 
	had to climb a bit to reach a road leading to the foot of Nantai-san. They 
	lost a lot of time in that 

riverbed and the Japanese man 
	felt sorry and gave them a ride in his car to the foot of Nantai-san once 
	they reached the road.
 
Sveta waited for Nicolas and 
	Daniel on her way to the summit of Nantai-san while Alexander went directly 
	to the car.

We all started climbing around 
	noon and soon we realized what everybody has read in the news on Monday: the 
	rainy season was in advance and had 

just started!
 
It started with a thin rain but 
	at the summit of Nantai-san (2485) it was a chilly rain with a cold wind, 
	thus we rushed to a shelter near the

shrine were we ate a snack. The 
	descent to lake chuzenji was also very rocky in its first part and muddy and 
	slippery at the end. We were well

beyond the map time (it took us 
	4 hours instead of 2h35). We reached the lake around 18:45. Then we took a 
	bus to go back to Nikko.
 
During that time Alexander had 
	walked back along the road from Chuzenji to Nikko and we met him in the 
	shrines of the ancient Nikko not very far from 

the car!
 
We have hiked 14 hours the 
	second day and a total of 21 hours over the week-end, so we were rather 
	tired! Some of us have climbed more than 3000m 

(total vertical ascent) with a 
	backpack weighting more than 16kg!
 
If you want to check how fit you 
	are, I recommend you to give a try to this hike!
 
A few things to know for those 
	planning to do this hike in the coming years
 

-> Chlorine or iodine pills can 
	help even if the water is supposed to be "pure" near the hut (some of us had 
	stomach problems after drinking the water)
 

-> Filter are not necessary as 
	the water comes out from a pipe
 

-> Tents might not be necessary 
	as Nyoho-san is very rocky (and thus sleeping under a tent would be very 
	uncomfortable) but the hut can be crowded.
 

-> The lightest you sleeping bag 
	is, the better it is, especially in the rocky parts
 
Back to the
Home Page

----

Report: 

----

