Title: Tanigawa-dake

----

Status: Completed

----

Place: Tanigawa-dake

----

Location: 36.8345934,138.9301544

----

Prefecture: Nagano

----

Tags: 

----

Date: 2023-09-02

----

Enddate: 2023-09-03

----

Days: 2

----

Organiser: yunosuke

----

Coorganiser: hirohito

----

Difficulty: 2

----

Description: 

Hi there,

This is the itinerary of September 2nd - 3rd. The total budget will be approximately ￥25,000 (including one night with two meals). The cost will be changed depend on the attendees and cars.

Participation will be on a first-come basis due to the need for reservations. If additional participants wish to join, I will contact the mountain hut at that point and request the additional reservation.

We can cancel it before 7 days for free. But after that, have to pay some reservation fee. Please let me know before 7 days, if you want to cancel it.

■The itinerary of Tanigawadake (September 2nd - 3rd)
・Day1
0530 leaving from Tsukuba St
0900 arrived at the bottom of Tanigawadake and stating hike
1500 arrived at Katanogoya (including 2 meals and bedding)
※Please bring 2 meals(for lunch in Day 1-2). And do not forget to bring snacks for emergencies.

・Day2
0700 leaving from Katanogoya
0900 arrived at the top of Tanigawadake and stating back
1300 arrived at the bottom of Tanigawadake
1800 arrived at Tsukuba St

■Others
Please wear warm cloth because the temperature on the mountain in September is cold.

If you are interested, please reply to this address including your
Name,
Sex (Men/Female/X)
Contact details (phone/e-mail)
Can you provide a car? (If so how may seats?)
Do you have car license?
※Those who have previously contacted me to participate, please only report participation.


If you would like further information, please see my previous email.

Best regards,
Yunosuke and Hirohito

----

Report: 

Dear everyone,

I am happy to report on the Tanigawadake Hike on the 2nd-3rd September. On what turned out to be a very fine and sunny day! The hike was originally scheduled for August 22nd-23rd, but had to be rescheduled because the hut reservation was full.
(It is better to make the reservation from 3 month before in peak time.)

 

On the day, 6 adults were come. Yunosuke, Thao, Kenneth, Nguyen, François and me

We got together in Tsukuba station at 5:30 and headed towards Tanigawadake from Tsukuba Center IC by a car using Kennoudou. After transferred to the Kannetsudo at Tsurugashima JCT and got off the highway at 水上IC (Minakami IC) and arrived at Tanigawadake around 9 o’clock and proceeded to the starting point of the hike.

 

The entrance of Tazirione route is located the after a bridge or near the shop. (It’s a little bit hard to find it.) We started walk from the shop headed towards the trailhead but we has passed through the trailhead because the trailhead was located inside of trees. It could not fine it.




After 30 min later, we realized that and back the way we came from and find the trailhead.




The way of Tazirione was not so steep so we enjoyed walking until the Kumanoanazawa shelter hut.




We arrived at the Kumanoanazawa shelter hut around noon and had lunch.




The way from the Kumanoanazawa shelter hut was steep. There was chain and rocky place a lot.




We arrived Katano hut around 15 o’clock and had supper. 




Next day, we wakeuped early morning and went to one of the peak of the Tanigawadake(TOMANOMIMI) and see the sunrise. It was very beautiful and fantastic view. Because of the weather in Tanigawadake is basically cloudy but the day we went was perfect sunny day.







After saw the sunrise, we had breakfast and said goodbye to the hut and back all the way we came from at 8 o’clock and arrived the starting point at the noon.




After that we went to the Tanigawa station which is located the deepest place in Japan. Inside of the tunnel was so cold but enjoyed mystical world.







We had Soba in the lunch and took a hot spring and back to Tsukuba Station around 7 o’clock PM.






Other pictures