Title: Fuji-san

----

Status: Completed

----

Place: Fuji-san           

----

Location: 

----

Prefecture: Shizuoka-ken/Yamanashi-ken

----

Tags: 

----

Date: 2003-08-30

----

Enddate: 2003-08-30

----

Days: 1

----

Organiser: Viswanath Ajay Mallia

----

Coorganiser: 

----

Difficulty: 

----

Description: Hike report by Ajay
I would like to start with, we all (20 participants)
returned back to Tsukuba at 19:30 hrs on 31st August.
We started our pilgrimage trip from the usual place,
7/11 near doho park at 7:00 am on 30th August in a
special TWMC-Bus Because of bit traffic problems at
Tokyo and Shinjuku we reached the Fifth
station-Kawaguchiko at 12:30 hrs. It was nice to see
the people there were waiting for us and we received
warm welcome (from the restaurant people, where we
reserved the lunch, ;)), after the lunch and a small
break at the 5th Station, we started climbing Mt.
Fuji at 13:30 hrs. I was bit worried about the
climate, it was bright and cloudy. Some time like in
the flash of femtoseconds we could able to see
beautiful sceneries around. Other wise walking on the
rocks was really boring. We all were walking in the
same pace and arrived the 8th station hut (Fuji-san
Hotel) at 17:45 hrs. When I reached there I
remembered Tadashi's words about the Fuji-san huts
habby and expensive but we didn't have any choice
because we planned to stay at the 8th Station. In the
night the sky was clear, view of mars and night view
of the kawaguchi-city from the 8th main station was
really great.
In the midnight climate became heavy windy and it
started raining a bit, As a optimistic person, I was
dreaming about the beautiful dawn that I only observed
in the pictures. As planned all members get ready for
the second day hike at 2:45 hrs. We started for the
summit at around 3:00 hrs. The speed of the wind and
also the heavy rain doesn't make us desperate. 
TWMC-Fujisan team move ahead, with the light seen from
individuals head. Some time we danced in the tune of
the wind, because the wind was blowing at the speed of
23 m/s. It was really unfortunate that none of us
noticed the disappearance of one of our member from
the group because of mountain sickness, discontinued
the walk. He later joined us at the lunch time. We all
went ahead slowly, but wind velocity and rain was
becoming bit heavier. At 4:45 am we reached the
Fuji-san jinja at the top, it was glad to see the
temple was opened and was nice shelter for us.
Suddenly temple people wake up, and were very angry
with us. Then we understand that some body broke the
temple door and get in to the temple in the early
morning. From that place we all planned to come down
because of the heavy rain and wind. We took the
Kawaguchiko descending trail. Heavy wind troubled us
in the descending time also, some time taking us with
it and some time throwing the stones. We all reached
back to the 5th station at around 8:45 am. After the
onsen and lunch at Kawaguchiko we back to Tsukuba with
nice memory of the Fuji-san annual pilgrimage trip
2003.
:)ajay

Back to the
Home Page

----

Report: 

----

